"The cheapest, fastest, and most reliable components are those that aren't there." (Gordon Bell)
"One of my most productive days was throwing away 1000 lines of code." (Ken Thompson)
"Debugging is twice as hard as writing the code in the first place. Therefore, if you write the code as cleverly as possible, you are, by definition, not smart enough to debug it." (Brian W. Kernighan and P. J. Plauger in The Elements of Programming Style)
"XML is like violence: if it doesn't solve your problem, you aren't using enough of it." (Heard from someone working at Microsoft)
"Threads [and] signals [are] a platform-dependant trail of misery, despair, horror and madness." (Anthony Baxter [http://mail.python.org/pipermail/python-dev/2005-July/])
"It's not that Perl programmers are idiots, it's that the language rewards idiotic behavior in a way that no other language or tool has ever done." (Erik Naggum, comp.lang.lisp)
"It's a curious thing about our industry: not only do we not learn from our mistakes, we also don't learn from our successes." (Keith Braithwaite)
"Unix is simple. It just takes a genius to understand its simplicity." (Dennis Ritchie)
PHP is a minor evil perpetrated and created by incompetent amateurs, whereas Perl is a great and insidious evil perpetrated by skilled but perverted professionals.
"Are you quite sure that all those bells and whistles, all those wonderful facilities of your so called powerful programming languages, belong to the solution set rather than the problem set?" (Edsger W. Dijkstra)
"Most software today is very much like an Egyptian pyramid with millions of bricks piled on top of each other, with no structural integrity, but just done by brute force and thousands of slaves." (Alan Kay)
"If the designers of X Windows built cars, there would be no fewer than five steering wheels hidden about the cockpit, none of which followed the same principles . but you.d be able to shift gears with your car stereo. Useful feature that." (Marcus J. Ranum, DEC)
[Like programmers] prostitutes also think they all suck. And both, programmers and prostitutes, are right: they suck. The big difference is that prostitutes got the term "user-friendly" right.
"Every methodology I've come across has, at its kernel, a very small section labelled "do magic here"." (Katie [http://www.fysh.org/~katie/computing/methodologies.txt])
Hofstadter's Law: It always takes longer than you expect, even when you take into account Hofstadter's Law.
Every language has an optimization operator. In C++ that operator is .//.
Theory is when you know something, but it doesn't work. Practice is when something works, but you don't know why. Programmers combine theory and practice: Nothing works and they don't know why.
A computer is a stupid machine with the ability to do incredibly smart things, while computer programmers are smart people with the ability to do incredibly stupid things. They are, in short, a perfect match.
Before software can be reusable it first has to be usable. (Ralph Johnson)
"Program testing can be a very effective way to show the presence of bugs, but is hopelessly inadequate for showing their absence." (Edsger W. Dijkstra)
"Code never lies, comments sometimes do." (Ron Jeffries)
"I have found that the reason a lot of people are interested in artificial intelligence is the same reason a lot of people are interested in artificial limbs: they are missing one." (David Parnas)
Software is like entropy. It is difficult to grasp, weighs nothing, and obeys the second law of thermodynamics; i.e. it always increases.
A fool with a tool is a more dangerous fool.
"The proper use of comments is to compensate for our failure to express ourself in code." (Robert C. Martin, Clean Code)
"If you want a product with certain characteristics, you must ensure that the team has those characteristics before the product's development." (Jim McCarthy and Michele McCarthy - Software for your Head)
"You can't have great software without a great team, and most software teams behave like dysfunctional families." (Jim McCarthy)
"Testing by itself does not improve software quality. Test results are an indicator of quality, but in and of themselves, they don't improve it. Trying to improve software quality by increasing the amount of testing is like trying to lose weight by weighing yourself more often. What you eat before you step onto the scale determines how much you will weigh, and the software development techniques you use determine how many errors testing will find. If you want to lose weight, don't buy a new scale; change your diet. If you want to improve your software, don't test more; develop better." (Steve McConnell, Code Complete)
"An organisation that treats its programmers as morons will soon have programmers that are willing and able to act like morons only." (Bjarne Stroustrup)
"I have always wished that my computer would be as easy to use as my telephone. My wish has come true. I no longer know how to use my telephone." (Bjarne Stroustrup)
"One Page Principle: A specification that will not fit on one page of 8.5x11 inch paper cannot be understood." (Mark Ardis)
"Programmers are in a race with the Universe to create bigger and better idiot-proof programs, while the Universe is trying to create bigger and better idiots.  So far the Universe is winning..." (Rich Cook) 
"Computer science education cannot make anybody an expert programmer any more than studying brushes and pigment can make somebody an expert painter." (Eric Raymond) 
"Programming is like sex. One mistake and you have to support it for the rest of your life." (Michael Sinz)
"Always code as if the guy who ends up maintaining your code will be a violent psychopath who knows where you live." (John F. Woods)
"Every program has at least one faulty line of code.  Every program can be shortened one line.  Conclusion: Every program can be reduced to one single faulty line of code."
'Some people, when confronted with a problem, think "I know, I.ll use regular expressions.. Now they have two problems' (Jamie Zawinski, in comp.lang.emacs)
The best thing about a boolean is even if you are wrong, you are only off by a bit.
"Without requirements or design, programming is the art of adding bugs to an empty text file." (Louis Srygley)
"One man’s crappy software is another man’s full time job." (Jessica Gaston)
"A good programmer is someone who always looks both ways before crossing a one-way street." (Doug Linder)
"Walking on water and developing software from a specification are easy if both are frozen." (Edward V Berard)
"There's no obfuscated Perl contest because it's pointless." (Jeff Polk)
"Real Programmers always confuse Christmas and Halloween because Oct31 == Dec25." (Andrew Rutherford)
"Simplicity is prerequisite for reliability." (Dijkstra)
"C programmers never die. They are just cast into void." (Anonymous)
"Measuring programming progress by lines of code is like measuring aircraft building progress by weight." (Bill Gates)
"If you need more than 3 levels of indentation, you're screwed anyway, and should fix your program." (Linux 1.3.53 CodingStyle documentation)
"Any fool can write code that a computer can understand. Good programmers write code that humans can understand." (Martin Fowler)
"Linux is only free if your time has no value." (Jamie Zawinski)
"To many managers, getting rid of the arrogant, undisciplined, over-paid, technology-obsessed, improperly-dressed etc. programmers would appear to be a significant added benefit." (Bjarne Stroustrup The C++ Programming Language 3e, section 24.2.4)
"I've finally learned what "upward compatible" means. It means we get to keep all our old mistakes." (Dennie van Tassel)
"It is difficult to get a man to understand something when his salary depends on his not understanding it." (Upton Sinclair)
"Power is the ability to control things, moral authority is the ability to change things" (Jim Wallis)
"The pessimist complains about the wind; the optimist expects it to change; the realist adjusts the sails." (William Arthur Ward)
"You know you've achieved perfection in design, not when you have nothing more to add, but when you have nothing more to take away." (Antoine de Saint-Exupery, Wind, Sand and Stars)
"Style distinguishes excellence from accomplishment." (James Coplien)
"Adding manpower to a late software project makes it later." (Fred Brooks)
"If it works, leave it alone — there’s no need to understand it. If it fails, try to fix it — there’s no time to understand it." (Bill Pfeifer)
"There are two major products that come out of Berkeley: LSD and UNIX. We don’t believe this to be a coincidence." (Jeremy S. Anderson.)
"A SQL query walks into a bar. He approaches two tables and says, ‘Mind if I join you?’"
"Nine people can’t make a baby in a month." (Fred Brooks)
"A clever person solves a problem. A wise person AVOIDS it." (Albert Einstein)
"The best way to get a project done faster is to start sooner" (Jim Highsmith) 
"The belief that complex systems require armies of designers and programmers is wrong. A system that is not understood in its entirety, or at least to a significant degree of detail by a single individual, should probably not be built." (Niklaus Wirth)
"It's better to wait for a productive programmer to become available than it is to wait for the first available programmer to become productive." (Steve McConnell)
"When to use iterative development? You should use iterative development only on projects that you want to succeed." (Martin Fowler, in "UML Distilled")
"Hiring people to write code to sell is not the same as hiring people to design and build durable, usable, dependable software." (Larry Constantine [Beyond Chaos])
"This is the number one rule: simplicity beats functionality, every single time. If you can't understand an architecture on a cold gray Monday morning before coffee, it is too complex."
"Programs must be written for people to read, and only incidentally for machines to execute" (Abelson / Susssman)
